What is Apache POI library?
Well, maybe you know that it's a library to handle Microsoft documents.
Microsoft Office documents, namely Excel spreadsheets,
Word documents,
and PowerPoint slides play a major role in our daily lives; therefore,
it's important to be able to handle them within our
software applications as well.
There are two main file formats used by Microsoft Office files.
OLE, which stands for object linking and embedding,
is a file format that uses compound files to hold content
where data is structured hierarchically,
organized into a single file.
It uses file extensions like XLS, DOC, and PPT,
respectively, for Excel, Word, and PowerPoint.
OOXML, which stands for Office Open XML file format,
uses a set of XML files to hold content,
and it uses file extensions like XLSX, DOCX,
and PPTX, respectively, for Excel, Word,
and PowerPoint.
Office documents have been supporting this file format
since Microsoft Office version 2007.
So how is it possible to create, modify,
and read these Microsoft Office documents from a Java application?
The Apache POI API from the Apache Software Foundation is a pure Java library,
which means that it is written in Java and can be used
with any JVM‑based language like Java, Scala,
Groovy, Kotlin, and etc.
It is open source and is available under the Apache license 2.0,
which is a free software license by the Apache
Software Foundation where users can use,
distribute, and modify the software without having to pay any royalties.
It also is a cross‑platform API,
meaning it can run on any operating system and manipulate various file
formats of Microsoft Office and also open Office documents.
The API is capable of handling Microsoft documents including creating, modifying, and displaying their content.